---
title: "March Meeting Notes"
date: 2021-03-29T16:34:30-04:00
last_modified_at: 2021-04-05T18:20:02-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
---
** Stroud4Europe Supporters’ Meeting Notes**
<img src="/assets/images/S4EU.png" style="width:1.39722in;height:1.29653in" />

** Monday March 29<sup>th</sup> 2021 7:30 p.m. Zoom**

 

The meeting sends very best wishes to Nadine and her family in Germany.

## Ways of getting closer to our European neighbours including looking at the electoral system. 
**Speaker: Geoff Gibbons**

Geoff has worked with all the county 4E groups in the past and is
passionate about the need to change to a fairer electoral system. In the
2019 General Election

70% of votes cast did not affect who sits in Parliament
([<u>https://www.makevotesmatter.org.uk/first-past-the-post</u>](https://www.makevotesmatter.org.uk/first-past-the-post))

46% voted for the Greens, Labour or Lib Dems in the S.W. Between them
they have 13% of the region’s MPs.
[<u>https://electionresults.parliament.uk/election/2019-12-12/results/Location/Region/South%20West</u>](https://electionresults.parliament.uk/election/2019-12-12/results/Location/Region/South West)

The 4Europe groups in Gloucestershire, during the peak of the pro EU
movement, had more members than any political party which gave us a
voice. Perhaps we have a moral responsibility to use that voice. Any
movement that wants to take us towards a close relationship with the EU
will need to address the First Past the Post (FPTP) electoral system.

Look at why we lost: the remain campaign was against a team that had
been working against the EU for 40 years and there were splits and
disagreements in the People’s Vote organisation as well as in some 4E
groups. They used the FPTP brilliantly – the Brexit party stood down in
312 seats in favour of the Tories.

We are now in an **“elective dictatorship**” – phrase coined by Lord
Hailsham in 1976. Membership of the EU was a “comfort blanket” to
obscure the dangers of our electoral system. That is now removed.

To address and protect ourselves once again we need to change to a form
of proportional representation with a progressive alliance. How?

1. Promote PR and Progressive Alliance

2. Learn more about both

3. Join political parties – to get involved

4. Momentum members – encouraged to support their policy on PR so it
gets taken to the next Labour conference

5. Local elections – when speak to candidates ask if they support PR
for local and national elections. Could write to every candidate.

6. Keep an eye on emerging platforms for cross party support for
getting our democracy into better shape. Compass is one of these:
[www.compassonline.org.uk](https://www.compassonline.org.uk/)

### Q and A with Geoff

Stroud Constituency Labour Party (CLP) is one of the 66% of CLPs in the
SW that support PR. Lib Dems and Greens both do.

“Equal votes” can be a more appealing term than PR. Labour is seen as
the party of equality – for women, BAME.

Talk about things that really matter to people when talking about our
democracy being at risk and about to fail us. 20% of people are in the
middle politically and potentially open to influence. We are conditioned
to think we live in a democracy and Tory arguments can be very
anaesthetising so need clear, direct language and a simple agenda.

What reason do the 4E groups have to speak out on PR and democracy? We
come at it from an EU membership or closer ties perspective – unlikely
with a Tory government.

Using 35/40 second videos would attract younger voters. Can add videos
to website. Make Votes Matter (MVM) is attractive to younger people.

Thanks to Geoff for a very informative and inspiring talk which set us
all thinking!

## EU Nationals – support from S4E

Working with the local Citizens Advice office, S4E members have been
putting up posters, writing to our MP, printed in SNJ and using personal
links with EU nationals to advertise the need to apply for Settled
Status by the end of June. Citizens Advice funding from government has
been extended for 6 months – which is progress.
[settled.org.uk](https://settled.org.uk/en/about-us/)
is a new charity supporting applications.

Settled Status approval is not confirmed with a paper document. Keep up
pressure to change this. 

Mike will now be a British Citizen! Welcome!

**Highlight the impact of Brexit locally**

Stories from local businesses, shops and organisations are needed, to
quote and include on website.

## Stroud4Europe website

David’s presentation and comparisons with other 4Europe group sites,
gave an insight into need to keep it dynamic. PLEASE consider writing
content e.g. local impact of Brexit, relevant European events locally,
national campaigns, – send direct to David or
[<u>stroud4europe@gmail.com</u>](mailto:stroud4europe@gmail.com)

*Suggestions for website:*

- Stronger logo for S4E

- Add Twitter feed

- Add more colour and graphics

- Make it European – with language input

- Should it be more forward and optimistic

## Setting up a "Stroud" Erasmus type scheme

England will probably end up as the only UK nation not supporting a
reciprocal Erasmus style scheme. Stroud could head the campaign and will
press the incoming local council after May 6<sup>th</sup> to support us
– even if just in principle.

## Opportunities for protest

We need strong messages – suggestion we need to be prepared to be
arrested.

Covid permitting, Steve Bray from Sodem and others are planning
demonstrations across the country between 23<sup>rd</sup> and
27<sup>th</sup> June with slogans of “Fight for your Rights”, “End the
Lies and Corruption”.

Banners on Merrywalks bridge? Nothing political allowed. Could ask the
Town Council if a banner with “Welcome to Stroud” in the many languages
our members speak was possible. A gesture to EU nationals and ad for
S4E? Perhaps to coincide with May 9<sup>th</sup> Europe Day?

## AOB

Facebook – we need to make more use of it as so easy to share c.f.
website

PR to be used in Scotland and Wales local elections though government
intending to reverse this and reintroduce FPTP for mayoral and Police
Commissioners votes in 4 years’ time. There’s progress!!

British nationals living in Spain may fall foul of need to have legal
registration if intend to stay longer than the 90 days allowed. Will
apply to other countries too.

Led by Donkeys type slogans and ads were very powerful.

We should consider the [“Overton Window”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overton_window) approach. Policy change will
occur if it is seen as not too extreme. Politicians can only act within
the acceptable range. So the task ahead is to make e.g. joining the
Customs Union or PR more acceptable.


Important to attract young voters and 6<sup>th</sup> formers.

**Date of next meeting:** Monday 24<sup>th</sup> May – 7.30 zoom
probably
